# Artificial-intelligence-enabled-traffic-management-system
Due to the growing population and people's need for comfort, more automobiles are being purchased, particularly in urban areas. This can result in heavy traffic, indicating that traffic violations are becoming more dangerous in every corner of the world. As a result, people's awareness decreases, and there are more accidents, which may result in the loss of many lives. The existing system has less accuracy and slow detection of violations, here we are using YOLO and OCR algorithms for object and number plate detection, these algorithms can detect the violation at high speed with good accuracy. The proposed system can detect the most common types of traffic violations in real-time through computer vision techniques and it also leverages good results with an accuracy of 88.3%.  The proposed traffic violation detector can identify signal violations, and the individuals are informed that they will be apprehended if they break a traffic law. The proposed system is faster and more efficient than human, as known already traffic police is the one who captures the image of individuals violating traffic rules but the traffic police will not be able to capture more than one violation simultaneously. When compared to other algorithms YOLO is found to be more advantageous and has higher efficiency and accuracy.
In this system we are going to implement an automatic traffic rule system. This system can detect the most common three types of traffic violations in real-time which are a signal violation, parking violation, and wrong direction violation. A user-friendly graphical interface is associated with the system to make it simple for the user to operate the system, monitor traffic, and take action against the violations of traffic rules.
